Add release note for 1.9.0 (#3651)
line/armeria: site/src/pages/release-notes/1.9.0.mdx

---
date: 2021-06-23
---

## 🌟 New features

> - You can now bind [GraphQL Java](https://www.graphql-java.com/) to <type://ServerBuilder> 

Reviewer: How about: `A new module `armeria-graphql` integrates with GraphQL Java to let you serve GraphQL requests. ?

  using <type://GraphqlService>. #3318 #3373
  ```java
  ServerBuilder sb = ...;
  sb.service("/graphql", GraphqlService.builder()
                                       .schemaFile(schemaFiles)
                                       .runtimeWiring(w -> ...)
                                       .configureDataLoaderRegistry(registery -> ...)
                                       ...
                                       .build());
  ```
  <Tip>

>   `armeria-graphql` is currently experimental, so you should be careful using the feature.

Reviewer: How about: `armeria-graphql` is currently experimental. We're looking forward to your feedback.

  </Tip>
- You can now transform the objects of <type://HttpRequest> and <type://HttpResponse> using a function.
  #3606 #3624
  ```java
  HttpRequest req1 = ...;
  HttpRequest req2 = req1.mapHeaders(headers -> ...)
                         .mapData(data -> ...)

>                          .mapTrailers(trailers -> ...);

Reviewer: How about adding a little bit more concrete example than just `...`, at least for the lambda expressions?

  
  HttpResponse res1 = ...;
  HttpResponse res2 = res1.mapHeaders(headers -> ...)
                          .mapInformational(informational -> ...)
                          .mapData(data -> ...)
                          .mapTrailers(trailers -> ...);
  ```
- You can now collect the all elements of a <type://StreamMessage> with <type://StreamMessage#collect()>. #3603
  ```java

>   StreamMessage<MyObject> stream = ...;
>   CompletableFuture<List<MyObject>> collected = stream.collect();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  StreamMessage<Integer> stream = StreamMessage.of(1, 2, 3);
  CompletableFuture<List<Integer>> collected = stream.collect();
  assert collected.join().equals(List.of(1, 2, 3));
```

  ```

> - You can exclude a <type://Route> from another <type://Route> when configuring their services. #2737 #3562

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can exclude a <type://Route> from another <type://Route> when configuring a service. #2737 #3562
```

  ```java
  ServerBuilder sb = ...;
  sb.route()
    .pathPrefix("/api")
    .exclude("/api/admin")

>     .exclude(Route.builder()...build())

Reviewer: Could we have more concrete example?

    .build(apiService);

  sb.routeDecorator()
    .pathPrefix("/api")
    .exclude("/api/admin")
    .build(MetricCollectingService.newDecorator());
  ```
- You can now update the service bindings without restarting a <type://Server> using
  <type://Server#reconfigure(ServerConfigurator)>. #3041 #3362 Note that there are some limitations on 
  the <type://Server> reconfiguration. Please check out #3041 for details.
  ```java
  Server server = ...;
  server.reconfigure(sb -> {
     sb.service("/dynamic", new LazyService());
  });
  ```
- You can now use <type://RequestOptions> to configure various options at request level. #3593
  ```java
  HttpRequest req = ...;
  WebClient client = ...;
  RequestOptions options = RequestOptions.builder()
                                         .responseTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(20))
                                         .writeTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(5))
                                         .maxResponseLength(2048)
                                         .attr(foo, "bar")
                                         .build();
  // Specify RequestOptions when sending a request.
  client.execute(req, options);
  

>   // Specify the options when building a request using WebClientRequestPreparation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // You can also specify the options when building a request using WebClientRequestPreparation.
```

        .responseTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(20))
        .writeTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(5))
        .maxResponseLength(2048)
        .attr(foo, "bar")
        .execute();
  ```
- You can now fluently build a <type://BlockingTaskExecutor> using <type://BlockingTaskExecutorBuilder>.
  #3315 #3389
  ```java
  BlockingTaskExecutor.builder()
                      .daemon(true)
                      .numThreads(500)
                      .threadNamePrefix("my-blocking-task-executor")
                      .build();
  ```
- You can now easily get a boolean value from <type://QueryParams> and <type://HttpHeaders>. #3600
  ```java
  HttpHeaders headers = HttpHeaders.of("checked", "true", "valid", "1");
  assert headers.getBoolean("checked");
  assert headers.getBoolean("valid");
  QueryParams params = QueryParams.of("checked", "false", "valid", "0");
  assert !params.getBoolean("checked");
  assert !params.getBoolean("valid");
  ```
- You can now conveniently configure a loopback port with
  <type://ServerBuilder#localPort(int,Iterable)>. #3599 #3601
  ```java
  Server.builder()
        .localPort(8080)
        .localPort(9090, SessionProtocol.HTTP, SessionProtocol.HTTPS);
  ```

> - You can now specify the default Jackson modules with <type://JacksonModuleProvider>. #3594 #3625
>   - All available Jackson modules are automatically loaded through Jackson's
>     [built-in SPI](https://fasterxml.github.io/jackson-databind/javadoc/2.11/com/fasterxml/jackson/databind/cfg/MapperBuilder.html#findAndAddModules--)
>     by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All Jackson modules in the class loader are registered automatically by default
  via Jackson's [built-in SPI mechanism](https://fasterxml.github.io/jackson-databind/javadoc/2.11/com/fasterxml/jackson/databind/cfg/MapperBuilder.html#findAndAddModules--)
  for your convenience. #3594 #3625
  - You can override this behavior by registering your <type://JacksonModuleProvider>
    implementation via Java SPI.
```

> - [TCP User Timeout Option](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5482) is enabled by default when an idle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [TCP user timeout option](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5482) is now enabled by default when an idle
```

  timeout is enabled. #3509
  - `TCP_KEEPIDLE` and `TCP_KEEPINTVL` options are enabled when a PING interval is greater than 0.

> - You can now get the last value of a header name or a query param using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now get the last value of a header or a query parameter using
```

  <type://HttpHeaders#getLast(CharSequence)> and <type://QueryParams#getLast(String)>. #3438 #3568
  ```java
  HttpHeaders headers = ...;
  headers.getLast(HttpHeaderNames.X_FORWARDED_FOR);
  
  QueryParams params = ...;

>   params.getLast("items");

Reviewer: More concrete example with assertions?

  ```

> - You can now specify the current and max content length when creating <type://ContentTooLargeException>.

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
- You can now see the specific information such as the length of transferred, delta, and limit from <type://ContentTooLargeException>.
```
because there's not much chance that a user creates the exception by him/herself? 🤔

Author: That makes sense.

>   from a <type://ContentTooLargeException>. #3520 #3616

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <type://ContentTooLargeException> now provides you the three following properties about why
  the exception was raised. #3520, #3616
  - The maximum allowed content length
  - The content length specified in the `content-length` header
  - The number of bytes transferred so far
```

- You can now convert a <type://Multipart> into an <type://HttpResponse>. #3642
- You can now warm up an `EventLoopGroup` using <type://EventLoopGroups#warmUp(EventLoopGroup)>. #3363 #3610

> - You can now figure out how many connections it is managing using <type://ClientFactory#numConnections()>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can now figure out how many connections that a <type://ClientFactory> is managing using <type://ClientFactory#numConnections()>.
```

> - You can now figure out how many connections that a <type://ClientFactory> is managing
>   using <type://ClientFactory#numConnections()>. #3596 #3613

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now figure out the number of connections managed by a <type://ClientFactory>
  with <type://ClientFactory#numConnections()>. #3596 #3613
```

> - You can now specify the number of event loop threads and blocking task threads using a number. #3597 #3602

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can now specify the number of event loop threads and blocking task threads. #3597 #3602
```

> - You can now specify the number of event loop threads and blocking task threads. #3597 #3602

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now specify the number of event loop threads and blocking task threads
  more conveniently. #3597 #3602
```

  ```java
  Server.builder()
        .workerGroup(3)
        .blockingTaskExecutor(10)
        ...
        .build();
  
  ClientFactory.builder()
               .workerGroup(3)
               .build();
  ```
- You can now clear the mocking state of a <type://MockWebServerExtension> using
  <type://MockWebServerExtension#reset()>. #3629

## 📈 Improvements

- Various optimizations for <type://StreamMessage> implementations. #3585 #3584
- You can now use an optimized context-aware `CompletableFuture` for Java 12 and above. #2119 #3615

> - Various multipart mime types are added to <type://MediaType>. #3642

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Various multipart MIME types were added to <type://MediaType>. #3642
```

> - You can now use optimized a context-aware `CompletableFuture` for Java 12 and above. #2119 #3615

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can now use an optimized context-aware `CompletableFuture` for Java 12 and above. #2119 #3615
```

Author: 😱

> - `TemporaryThreadLocals` throws an `IllegalStateException` if it was not properly released before using it.

Reviewer: We can skip this because it's for devs only.

  #3505

## 🛠️ Bug fixes

- `ByteBuf`s are no longer leaked when using:

>   - Spring WebFlux integration with compression #3608 #3617
>   - <type://StreamMessageDuplicator> #3476 #3583

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Spring WebFlux integration with compression #3608 #3617; or
  - <type://StreamMessageDuplicator> #3476 #3583
```

- You no longer see a <type://ResponseTimeoutException> with <type://CircuitBreakerClient> when a large number
  of messages are received from a response. #3631
- You can now set the service name of an annotated service using
  the <type://ServerBuilder#defaultServiceNaming(ServiceNaming)>. #3589
- You no longer see a <type://ClosedStreamException> when an <type://EndpointGroup> is empty. #3381 #3636
- Late `Subscriber`s correctly run on the specified executor. #3623 #3632
- An exception raised in <type://THttpService> is now properly peeled using
  <type://Exceptions#peel(Throwable)>. #3588
- You no longer see an `UnsatisfiedLinkError` when a Netty JAR without native libraries is included. #3485 #3607
- Additional headers are now correctly updated to <type://RequestOnlyLog#requestHeaders()>. #3579 #3581

> - `CancellationScheduler` provides more accurate timeout nanoseconds. #3570

Reviewer: Could make this more user-friendly. A user has no idea what `CancellationScheduler`.

---
date: 2021-06-23
---

## 🌟 New features

> - A new module armeria-graphql integrates with [GraphQL Java](https://www.graphql-java.com/) to let you serve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A new module `armeria-graphql` integrates with [GraphQL Java](https://www.graphql-java.com/) to let you serve
```

  [built-in SPI machanism](https://fasterxml.github.io/jackson-databind/javadoc/2.11/com/fasterxml/jackson/databind/cfg/MapperBuilder.html#findAndAddModules--)
  for your convenience.
  - You can override this behavior by registering your <type://JacksonModuleProvider> implementation
    via Java SPI. #3594 #3625
- [TCP user timeout option](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5482) is now enabled by default when an
  idle timeout is enabled. #3509
  - `TCP_KEEPIDLE` and `TCP_KEEPINTVL` options are enabled when a PING interval is greater than 0.
- You can now get the last value of a header or a query parameter using
  <type://HttpHeaders#getLast(CharSequence)> and <type://QueryParams#getLast(String)>. #3438 #3568
  ```java
  HttpHeaders headers =
      HttpHeaders.builder()
                 .add(HttpHeaderNames.X_FORWARDED_FOR,
                     List.of("203.0.113.195", "150.172.238.178"))
                 .build();
  assert headers.getLast(HttpHeaderNames.X_FORWARDED_FOR)
                .equals("150.172.238.178");
  
  QueryParams params = 
      QueryParams.builder()
                 .add("items", List.of("1", "2", "3"))
                 .build();

>   assert params.getLastInt("items").equals(1);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  assert params.getLastInt("items").equals(3);
```

Author: 😱

  ```

> - <type://ContentTooLargeException> now provides you the three following properties about why
>     the exception was raised. #3520, #3616

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <type://ContentTooLargeException> now provides you the following 3 properties about why
  the exception was raised. #3520, #3616
```
